CV.md, before:

# Abhishesh Homagain  
(647) 505-2111 | abh.homagain@gmail.com | Ahomagai.github.io  

---

## Skills and Qualifications

- Data driven mixed-methods researcher with an ability to lead complex research studies  

- 4+ years of experience with Python (NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, scikit-learn), R, and Tableau for  
hypothesis testing, data analysis, and visualization  

- Clinical researcher specializing in neurodegenerative diseases and better understanding motor symptoms of Parkinson's Disease (PD) through biophysical sensors

- Trained in measurement of clinical neurophysiological signals from EEG and EMG; interested in applying these skills to BCI

---

## Work Experience

**Doctoral Candidate** | *University of Waterloo | Waterloo, ON*  
*Sep 2022 – Current*  

  - Developing a mixed-methods approach using semi-structured interviews and natural language  
processing to qualitatively assess how Parkinson’s Disease affects patients’ views and experiences  
of their homes  

  - Currently developing RNN based machine learning models to detect freezing of gait using a  
combination of accelerometers and biophysical sensors  

**Graduate Peer Tutor** | *UW Writing and Communication Center | Waterloo, ON*  
*Jan 2023 – Current*  

  - Advised graduate students in their writing and communication projects, from brainstorming to  
proofreading of thesis work, course assignments, and manuscripts  

  - Guided undergraduate students with their course assignments, asking probing questions and  
providing feedback to improve their work  

**Council Speaker** | *UW Graduate Student Association | Waterloo, ON*  
*May 2024 – Current*  

  - Chair of the graduate student council, responsible for advising and collaborating with the Board and  
President of the GSA on matters of concern, advocacy, and direction of the GSA  

  - Advised and facilitated discussion within leadership committees of the University of Waterloo on  
matters pertaining to graduate student experience (funding, academic policies etc.)  

---

## Projects

- [**Deadliness in mass shootings: What factors determine deadliness of a mass shooting incident in  
the United States? (R)**](https://ahomagai.github.io/mass_shooting.html)    

  - Used data from the Violence Project to determine whether factors such as gun law strictness, gun  
  ownership, political party affiliation, link to hate groups etc. affected the deadliness of a mass  
  shooting incident  

- [**Emergency room readmission: Prediction of high-frequency users of emergency departments using  
MIMICIII dataset & various machine learning models (PostgreSQL & Python)**](https://github.com/Ahomagai/HighFrequencyEmergencyDepartmentML)  

  - Compared and optimized various ML models (XGBoost, Ensemble, SVM etc.) to identify the best  performing model that predicted high frequency users of emergency departments  

- [**Three parties of Ontario: Insights into 2018 and 2022 provincial elections (Tableau & Python)**](https://ahomagai.github.io/Ont_Prov_Election_Insight.html)  

  - Compared Ontario provincial election results and highlighted insights from the 2018 and 2022  
  results across the three major parties, creating interactive geospatial maps of riding outcomes  

- [**Wrangling Chess: Analyzing first move advantage and most common first move in chess (R)**](https://ahomagai.github.io/Chess_data.html)  

  - Used R and Lichess.com to extract and wrangle unstructured text into usable tabular data and  
  performed linear regressions to calculate first move ELO advantage and most common move  

---

## Education

**PhD Candidate, Kinesiology – Neuroscience**, *University of Waterloo*  
*2022 - Current*  
PhD Thesis: Emotions, environments, and freezing of gait in Parkinson’s Disease  

**MSc, Kinesiology – Neuroscience**, *University of Waterloo*  
*2020 - 2022*  
MSc Thesis: How do emotions affect gait?  

**BSc, Honors Kinesiology (Co-op)**, *University of Waterloo*  
*2015 - 2020*  

---

## Graduate Research

### Publications

[*Emotions affect steady-state walking performance*, PLOS ONE, Accepted September 14, 2023](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0284308)  

### Presentations

• **Conference Poster Presentations**  

  - Title: *Postural instability relates to autonomic dysfunction in Parkinson’s Disease*, International  
Congress of Parkinson’s Disease and Movement Disorders, Philadelphia, USA, September 2024  

  - Title: *Emotions affect walking performance*, International Brain Research Organization (IBRO),  
Granada, Spain, September 2023  

  - Title: *Gait differences in virtual and real-life laboratory environments*, International Society for  
Posture and Gait Research (ISPGR), Montreal, Canada, July 2022  

• **Research Talks**  

  - Semi-finalist, Three-minute thesis (3MT) ISPGR 2021 (COVID postponed)  

  - Winner, Departmental 3MT competition, Faculty of Health, University of Waterloo  

  - Thesis Talk, Research Day, Center for Theoretical Neuroscience (CTN), University of Waterloo  

---

## Teaching Experience

  - Graduate Teaching Assistant (2021 & 2023) – 1st Year Human Anatomy Lab (cadaver lab)  

  - Guest Lecture – Cognition, Cognitive Dysfunction, and Movement (KIN359)  

---

## Extra-Curriculars

**Hacker** | *Hack the North* | *September 2023*  
  - Created a working prototype of a single camera-based gait analysis tool, using OpenCV in Python  

**Member** | *Senate Graduate Research Committee | University of Waterloo* | *May 2024 – Current*  
  - Represented the Faculty of Health as a voting member of the SGRC, providing input and  
recommendations to senate regarding changes in academic programs, finance, graduate courses etc.

Commit message:

Revise CV with updated qualifications and experiences
Updated skills, work experience, presentations, teaching experience, and extra-curriculars sections in CV.

CV.md, after:

# Abhishesh Homagain  
(647) 505-2111 | abh.homagain@gmail.com | Ahomagai.github.io  

---

## Skills and Qualifications

- 4+ years of experience with Python (NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, scikit-learn), R, and Tableau for hypothesis testing, data analysis, and visualization

- Experienced in  applying data science theories, principles and best practices and advanced analytics for data modelling, data mining, statistical modelling and evidence-informed decision-making including implementing end-to-end machine learning models and analysis 

- 3+ years of experience conducting and synthesizing clinical research using qualitative and quantitative methods, including systematic literature reviews, evidence synthesis, and critical appraisal, with a strong focus on study design, and clinically meaningful interpretation of findings

- PhD candidate with advanced analytical and biostatistics expertise in Python, R, SQL with an ability to lead complex analytical projects with a multi-disciplinary team

---

## Work Experience

**Doctoral Candidate** | *University of Waterloo | Waterloo, ON*  
*Sep 2022 – Current*  

  - Developing a mixed-methods approach using semi-structured interviews and natural language  
processing to qualitatively assess how Parkinson’s Disease affects patients’ views and experiences  
of their homes  

  - Currently developing RNN based machine learning models to detect freezing of gait using a  
combination of accelerometers and biophysical sensors  

**Graduate Peer Tutor** | *UW Writing and Communication Center | Waterloo, ON*  
*Jan 2023 – Current*  

  - Advised graduate students in their writing and communication projects, from brainstorming to  
proofreading of thesis work, course assignments, and manuscripts  

  - Guided undergraduate students with their course assignments, asking probing questions and  
providing feedback to improve their work  

**Council Speaker** | *UW Graduate Student Association | Waterloo, ON*  
*May 2024 – Current*  

  - Chair of the graduate student council, responsible for advising and collaborating with the Board and  
President of the GSA on matters of concern, advocacy, and direction of the GSA  

  - Advised and facilitated discussion within leadership committees of the University of Waterloo on  
matters pertaining to graduate student experience (funding, academic policies etc.)  

---

## Projects

- [**Deadliness in mass shootings: What factors determine deadliness of a mass shooting incident in  
the United States? (R)**](https://ahomagai.github.io/mass_shooting.html)    

  - Used data from the Violence Project to determine whether factors such as gun law strictness, gun  
  ownership, political party affiliation, link to hate groups etc. affected the deadliness of a mass  
  shooting incident  

- [**Emergency room readmission: Prediction of high-frequency users of emergency departments using  
MIMICIII dataset & various machine learning models (SQL & Python)**](https://github.com/Ahomagai/HighFrequencyEmergencyDepartmentML)  

  - Compared and optimized various ML models (XGBoost, Ensemble, SVM etc.) to identify the best performing model that predicted high frequency users of emergency departments  

- [**Three parties of Ontario: Insights into 2018 and 2022 provincial elections (Tableau & Python)**](https://ahomagai.github.io/Ont_Prov_Election_Insight.html)  

  - Compared Ontario provincial election results and highlighted insights from the 2018 and 2022  
  results across the three major parties, creating interactive geospatial maps of riding outcomes  

- [**Wrangling Chess: Analyzing first move advantage and most common first move in chess (R)**](https://ahomagai.github.io/Chess_data.html)  

  - Used R and Lichess.com to extract and wrangle unstructured text into usable tabular data and  
  performed linear regressions to calculate first move ELO advantage and most common move  

---

## Education

**PhD Candidate, Kinesiology – Neuroscience**, *University of Waterloo*  
*2022 - Current*  
PhD Thesis: Emotions, environments, and freezing of gait in Parkinson’s Disease  

**MSc, Kinesiology – Neuroscience**, *University of Waterloo*  
*2020 - 2022*  
MSc Thesis: How do emotions affect gait?  

**BSc, Honors Kinesiology (Co-op)**, *University of Waterloo*  
*2015 - 2020*  

---

## Graduate Research

### Publications

[*Emotions affect steady-state walking performance*, PLOS ONE, Accepted September 14, 2023](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0284308)  

### Presentations

• **Conference Poster Presentations**  

  - Title: Characterizing how different subtypes of freezers performed on the new clinician reported
outcome for freezing of gait, International Society for Posture and Gait Research (ISPGR),
Maastricht, Netherlands, July 2025

  - Title: *Postural instability relates to autonomic dysfunction in Parkinson’s Disease*, International  
Congress of Parkinson’s Disease and Movement Disorders, Philadelphia, USA, September 2024  

  - Title: *Emotions affect walking performance*, International Brain Research Organization (IBRO),  
Granada, Spain, September 2023  

  - Title: *Gait differences in virtual and real-life laboratory environments*, International Society for  
Posture and Gait Research (ISPGR), Montreal, Canada, July 2022  

• **Research Talks**  

  - Semi-finalist, Three-minute thesis (3MT) ISPGR 2021 (COVID postponed)  

  - Winner, Departmental 3MT competition, Faculty of Health, University of Waterloo  

  - Thesis Talk, Research Day, Center for Theoretical Neuroscience (CTN), University of Waterloo  

---

## Teaching Experience
  - Graduate Teaching Assistant – Graduate, Research Design and Statistical Analysis (2026)

  - Guest Lecturer - Graduate, Research Design and Statistical Analysis - Introduction to Machine Learning (2026)

  - Graduate Teaching Assistant – Undergraduate, Human Anatomy (2021, 2023)

  - Guest Lecturer – Undergraduate, Cognition, Cognitive Dysfunction, and Movement (2024)
---

## Extra-Curriculars

**Core Member** | *WATOLINK | University of Waterloo* | *June 2025 – Current*  
  - Developed machine learning models to control external hand prosthesis using electromyography (EMG) 

**Member** | *Senate Graduate Research Committee | University of Waterloo* | *May 2024 – Current*  
  - Represented the Faculty of Health as a voting member of the SGRC, providing input and  
recommendations to senate regarding changes in academic programs, finance, graduate courses etc.  

**Hacker** | *Hack the North* | *September 2023*  
  - Created a working prototype of a single camera-based gait analysis tool, using OpenCV in Python
